we begin in Gaza where Israeli strikes
have killed at least nine people from
the same family five children were
killed when their health was targeted in
the alur refugee camp in central Gaza
the bodies have been taken to alaka
hospital to prepare them for
burial meanwhile the Israeli Army opened
fire overnight on Palestinians waiting
to collect food Aid in Gaza City at
least six people were killed and 83
injured in the attack Israeli forces
have repeated targeted starving
civilians who wait for humanitarian Aid
trucks at the Kuwait roundabout the
intersection is on the Salah Adine Road
that's a main route linking northern and
southern Gaza at least 400 Palestinians
have been killed in Israeli attacks on
Aid deliveries so
far and the attack happened on the same
day that Israel targeted a un Food
Distribution Center in the southern city
of Rafa at least five people were killed
including a staff member of the UN
Agency for Palestinian refugees Andra
the facility is one of the last
remaining food distribution points in
Gaza the agency has called for an
independent investigation Felix NADA
reports blood stains the floor of a un
relief Distribution Center in
Rafa a stark reminder of the dangers
humanitarian workers face in Gaza staff
members mourn the loss of a colleague
one of five people killed in an Israeli
attack this is forbidden we are an
international institution all of this is
for the people we stopped returning to
our homes we work here day and night to
serve refugees we take all of this to
the elderly and the children what is
this unra says that it frequently shares
locations of its facilities with all
parties but that has not stopped the
Israeli military from targeting
it the Israeli Army described
Wednesday's attack as a successful
operation targeting a Hamas
Commander since October more than 150
unra centers have been struck in
Israel's war on Gaza this includes
schools Sheltering the
displaced at least 400 people have been
killed while Sheltering under the United
Nations flag the UN called this latest
attack devastating it has a negative
impact on our ability of staff to to to
work it has a negative impact on the
ability of those who need Aid uh to get
Aid it's it's another it's another
tragic symbol of the conditions under
which our humanitarian colleagues work
every day in um in
Gaza Aid agencies say unr's role in
Palestinian territories is
irreplaceable deaths from Hunger are
already being reported in Gaza in a
meeting with the US Secretary of State
the eu's policy chief called for the
opening of more channels to deliver Aid
we need to clear the humanitarian access
through SE by air that's good that's not
enough you cannot replace hundreds of
trucks by sending parachutes the most
important thing is to open the borders
by
land under international law Aid
facilities are supposed to be protected
during armed conflict but as War rages
in Gaza incidents like this seem likely
to continue
unchecked Felix Nara Al
jazer responding to that attack on the
UN Distribution Center US Secretary of
State Anthony blinkin has urged Israel
to ensure the safety of humanitarian
workers in Gaza Patty Khan reports from
Washington DC a very brief press
conference with US Secretary of State
Anthony blinkin here at the state
department he wanted to talk about a
video conference call that was hosted
with Cyprus the US the European Union
United Kingdom UAE cter and uh the
United Nations they're really trying to
coordinate how they're going to do this
temporary pier in Gaza to get Aiden by
sea he said it's going to take time but
he said he hopes that when it is up and
running they'll be able to deliver two
million meals a day he did say though
that this can only just complement Aid
that really needs to go in the most
effective way which is over land now he
did say that it would be good of the
Israelis to provide a very definitive
list of items that are not allowed and
to speed up inspections but when asked
who is to blame for such little Aid
getting in he did not blame the Israelis
he was asked about just the latest
attack on uh food distribution site in
Gaza without getting into the specifics
of this incident because again I don't
know the facts I think it does as a
general matter underscore something I
talked about a few minutes ago and
that's the imperative of having much
better and much more consistent
deconfliction humanitarian workers the
agencies they need to be able to do
their jobs in with as much security and
as much confidence as is possible many
of the questions focused on potential
consequences for Israel as you know
president Joe Biden said that there it
was a red line if they were to invade
Rafa he didn't go into any detail that
there even may be potential consequences
if the prime minister of Israel Benjamin
Netanyahu does what he's been saying
he's going to do and invade Rafa anyway
Patty khaine Al jazer at the state
department let's go to our correspondent
hanim mmud now he's joining us on the
phone from Rafa and Hy as we've been
reporting over the last couple of hours
nine members of One family killed in the
latest attacks in ver Al Balan
which of course has been one of the most
targeted areas of Gaza since October
7th yes and the Elizabeth the more
reports we're getting from uh the Lota
Hospital confirmed reports of
difficulties of the medical staff to
intervene proper right now and to save
lives from those who came with different
injuries you know the de breath and TR
know that that you can travel at a very
high speed and and hitting people coming
with really critical injuries just very
difficult for uh the hospital particular
when it comes to fractured bones and the
fact that there's an specialized uh uh
uh doctors who can do the operation
necessary the surgery to save life is
becoming very difficult and the vast
majority of people so far not this case
but also from the past injuries are run
to the hospital they would go under
amputation right away giving the fact
that there isn't any medical supplies or
or sufficient medical staff to intervene
and and save lives and and and protect
people uh nine people reported killed
and we are looking at close to 18
different injuries that are being
treated right now but with with so much
difficulty uh right now similar
situations are reported from a shifa
hospital and a shifa hospital is a
different totally different story right
now because it's non-operational and the
fact this number of injuries arriving to
a sha Hospital with these situations
going on is more of a death sentence to
these injuries as within days they they
are at risk of losing their lives as
there's no surgeries no medical supplies
and also the medical the back from an
attack on the aid Seekers at a qu round
that where uh six people reported killed
and 83 injuries and we look at injuries
that are either in the back the
abdominal area the make very serious
injuries that the hospital unable to
provide any necessary
intervention and a different on a new
development Israel military pulled out
of Muslim Hamed residential City but
leaving behind sheer level of
Destruction close to 17 residential
Towers completely destroyed leaving
thousand of people without a home right
now all right hany thank you very much
for that that is Han Mahmud with all the
latest from Gaza joining us on the phone
from
Rafa